# DIO-Projects

1. Project 1 - [Linux](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%201%20-%20Linux%20Commands/README.md)  
   Using linux commands for normal day to day operations as well as commands for file manipulation and basic system administration.
2. Project 2 - [Basic Git Operations](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%202%20-%20Basic%20Git%20Operations/README.md)  
   This project is a collection of beginner-friendly tasks for an introduction to the world of version control.
3. Project 3 - [Deploy a simple web application using the LAMP web STACK ](<https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%203%20-%20LAMP(Linux%2C%20Apache%2C%20MySql%2C%20PhP)%20Stack/README.md>)  
   In this project, we will be using the LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySql and PhP) web stack to deploy a simple web application. The project provides details on how to configure, manage and secure the technologies(Linux, Apapche, MySql, PhP).
4. Project 4 - [Deploy a simple web application using the LEMP web STACK](<https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%204%20-%20LEMP%20(Linux%2C%20Nginx%2C%20MySql%2C%20PhP)%20Stack/README.md>)  
   In this project, we will be using the LEMP (Linux, Nginx, MySql and PhP) web stack to deploy a simple web application that reads data from a database. The project provides details on how to configure, manage and secure the technologies(Linux, Nginx, MySql, PhP). It also provides a basic introduction to **C R ~~U~~ ~~D~~ (Create Read ~~Update~~ ~~Delete~~)** Operations in a database.
5. Project 5 - [Task Automation with Bash Scripting](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%205%20-%20Task%20Automation%20with%20Bash%20Scripts/README.md)  
   An introduction to bash scripting. Here, basic tasks such as file and directory manipulation, Text processing, Conditional Statements and functions, accepting user input creating, backing up files with timestamp, etc are demonstrated.
6. Project 6 - [Demonstrating a Client - Server Architecture using MySQL Server](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%206%20-%20Demonstrating%20a%20Client%20-%20Server%20Architecture%20using%20MySQL%20Server/README.md)  
   A simple exercise to demonstrate the Client - Server Architecture using MySQL database (MySql client and Mysql Server), and two separate computers running in the same network.
7. Project 7 - [Designing a Load Balancer using Nginx](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%207%20-%20Designing%20a%20Load%20Balancer%20using%20Nginx/README.md)  
   This is exercise, we will see how Nginx can be configured to act as a load balancer. We will be creating two different web applications running on apache, and the a third server would be provision with Nginx. The client would go the the load balancer's url, and the load balancer would automatically redirect the traffic to any of the available server.
8. Project 8 - [Advance Bash Scripting - Automating the configuration of a Load Balancer in Nginx](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%208%20-%20Bash%20Scripting%20-%20Automating%20a%20LoadBalncer%20Configuration/README.md)  
   In this project, we will explore more on bash scripting by creating two(2) bash scripts. The first script will automate the deployment of a web application running on apache. The second script will configure Nginx to act as a load balancer to evenly distribute traffic between two web applications.
9. Project 9 - [Deploying a WordPress website integrated with Logical Volume Management (LVM) storage](<https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%209%20-%20Deploying%20a%20WordPress%20website%20integrated%20with%20Logical%20Volume%20Management%20(LVM)%20storage/README.md>)  
   This project involves the deployment of a WordPress website with a focus on understanding and using LVM for storage management in a Linux environment. The first part of the project will focus on configuring the LVM for the web and database server, while the second part will be on installing and deploying a wordpress application that connects to a remote database.
10. Project 10 - [Deploying a 3-Tier Web Application using Network File System (NFS) in AWS](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%2010%20-%20Deploying%20a%203%20Tier%20Web%20Application%20using%20NFS%20Storage/README.md)  
    We've already seen the deployment of a 3-Tier Web Application. However, this project builds on that by using the Network File System (NFS). Using NFS in a 3-tier web application deployment allows for a centralized and shared file system, simplifying data management and enabling better collaboration between different components. It enhances scalability, ease of maintenance, and flexibility in adapting to changing application requirements.
11. Project 11 - [CI/CD With Jenkins](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%2011%20-%20CI%20CD%20With%20Jenkins/README.md)  
    In this project, we will install and configure a Jenkins server to automate the deployment of the same application whenever the developers make a change to the source code by adding a feature to the application or fixing a bug.
12. Project 12 - [Ansible (Automating simple tasks with Ansible)](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%2012%20-%20Automating%20simple%20tasks%20with%20Ansible/README.md)  
    This would be an introductory project to the world of ansible. In this project, we will install ansible and automate simple tasks with ansible
13. Project 13 - [More on Ansible (Imports and Assignments)](<https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%2013%20-%20More%20on%20Ansible%20(Imports%20and%20Assignments)/README.md>)  
    In this project, we will explore more on Ansible, specifically using Imports and Assignments to organize and structure our playbooks efficiently.
14. Project 14 - [More on Ansible 2 (Dynamic Assignments(Include) and Community Roles)](<https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%2014%20-%20More%20on%20Asible%202%20(Include%20and%20Coomunity%20Roles)/README.md>)  
    In this project, we will explore more way to structure our ansible project using the **Include** feature. We will also explore some community or pre-built roles in ansible.
15. Project 15 - [Implementing Networking Concepts in AWS (VPC, Subnets, IG, NAT, Routing, etc)](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%2015%20-%20Networking%20in%20AWS/README.md)  
    In this Project, we will be setting up and configuring various AWS services to build a scalable, secure, and efficient network infrastructure. We will do this by creating Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Private and Public Subnets, Internet Gateway (IG), NAT Gateway, Security Groups, Network ACL etc.
16. Project 16 - [Infrastructure as a Code (IaC) using Terraform in AWS](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%2016%20-%20Infrastructure%20as%20a%20Code%20using%20Terraform/README.md)  
    In this project, we wil be learning a concept called Infrastructure as a Code (IaC) to manage and provision cloud resources. Iac is all about using code rather than manual processes to create and provision our infrastructures. Terraform is a popular IaC tool that enables you to define and deploy infrastructure across various cloud providers, including AWS.
17. Project 17 - [Implementing CICD Pipeline for Terraform using Jenkins](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/blob/main/Project%2017%20-%20Implementing%20CICD%20Pipeline%20for%20Terraform%20using%20Jenkins/README.md)  
    Setting up a CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment) pipeline for Terraform using Jenkins involves a series of steps. In this project, we will set up a Jenkins from a docker image and then and also install Terraform CLI to implement the CICD Pipeline.
18. Project 18 - [End to End Continuous Integration (CI) project using JENKINS | ANSIBLE | ARTIFACTORY | SONARQUBE | PHP](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-Projects/tree/main/Project%2018%20-%20End%20to%20End%20Continous%20Intergration%20Project#readme)  
    In this project, we will be taking a deeper look at **Continous Intergration** in practice. Here, will use several CI softwares like Jenkins, Ansible, SonarQube, etc to drive this implementation.
19. Project 19 - [Containerization with Docker](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-DevOps-Projects/blob/main/Project%2019%20-%20Containerization/README.md)  
    THis project would be a basic introduction to containers(Docker). We will also see Docker in action by deploy our tooling application using docker.
20. Project 20 - [Building a Scalable and Secure IT Infrastructure on AWS for a Company](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-DevOps-Projects/blob/main/Project%2020%20-%20Building%20a%20Scalable%20and%20Secure%20IT%20Infrastructure%20on%20AWS/README.md)  
    In this project, we will be designing the IT infrastructure for a fictitious company using AWS from scratch. Topics that would be covered includes AWS Organization, AWS Accounts and IAM, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) Configuration and Networking etc.
21. Project 21 - [Infrastructure as a Code (IaC) using Terraform in AWS Part 2](https://github.com/iamYole/DIO-DevOps-Projects/blob/main/Project%2021%20-%20Infrastruct%20as%20a%20Code%20using%20Terraform%20Part%202/README.md)  
    In this project, we will be provisioning more resources in AWS using Terraform. Specifically, we will be provisioning the network infrastructures that were created in the previous project.
